contents/docs/components/content-display/avatar/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Avatar
description: "Also known as: Profile image, User icon"
---

## Preview

<div className="w-full bg-primary h-[320px] flex items-center justify-center border border-primary gap-4">
    <div className="moon-avatar">
      MD
    </div>
</div>

## Resources

<Files
  items={[
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "Figma",
      subtype: "figma",
      href: "https://www.figma.com/design/sXfqO9M8Lr11hhS5yUA2hz/MDS-Avatar",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "CSS",
      subtype: "css",
      href: "https://ui.moon.io/?path=/docs/content-display-avatar--docs",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "React",
      subtype: "react",
      href: "https://react.moon.io/?path=/docs/content-display-avatar--docs",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "LiveView",
      subtype: "elixir",
      href: "https://liveview.moon.io/content_display/avatar",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Properties

| **Property**        | **Values**                          | **Default** |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Variant `Variant`   | `Initials \| Picture \| Icon`       | `Icon`      |
| Size `Variant`      | `Xs \| Sm \| Md \| Lg \| Xl \| 2Xl` | `Md`        |
| Initials `Text`     | `string`                            | `DS`        |
| Icon `InstanceSwap` | `Any icon`                          | `user`      |

## Best practises

- Use avatars to visually represent users, accounts or entities.
- Use a recognizable image, initials or icon to represent entities.
- Provide fallback content for the image or initials.

## Variants

Some common variants are already created and ready to use (see the table), but you have the possibility to add new variants or customize every visual aspect through tokens and token modes.

| **Variant** | `Fill \| Soft \| Outline` |
| ----------- | ------------------------- |

## Size

Dimensions of the avatar are tied to the global `scale` tokens. This ensures that the components with similar size settings remain consistent across the interface. `scale` tokens also provides more granular control over dimensional settings.

```css:scale.css showLineNumbers
--scale-width-<size>
--scale-height-<size>
--scale-radius-<size>
--scale-icon-size-<size>
--scale-text-size-<size>
--scale-text-height-<size>
```

Commit message:

Bunch of links and component documentation

contents/docs/components/content-display/avatar/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Avatar
description: "Also known as: Profile image, User icon"
---

## Preview

<div className="w-full bg-primary h-[320px] flex items-center justify-center border border-primary gap-4">
    <div className="moon-avatar">
      MD
    </div>
</div>

## Resources

<Files
  items={[
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "Figma",
      subtype: "figma",
      href: "https://www.figma.com/community/file/1555928877838283718/mds-avatar",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "CSS",
      subtype: "css",
      href: "https://ui.moon.io/?path=/docs/content-display-avatar--docs",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "React",
      subtype: "react",
      href: "https://react.moon.io/?path=/docs/content-display-avatar--docs",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "LiveView",
      subtype: "elixir",
      href: "https://liveview.moon.io/content_display/avatar",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Properties

| **Property**        | **Values**                          | **Default** |
| ------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Variant `Mode`      | Fill \| Soft   | Fill               |
| Content `Variant`   | Initials \| Picture \| Icon         | Icon      |
| Size `Variant`      | Xs \| Sm \| Md \| Lg \| Xl \| 2Xl   | Md        |
| Initials `Text`     | string                              | DS        |
| Icon `InstanceSwap` | Any icon                            | user      |

## Best practises

- Use avatars to visually represent users, accounts or entities.
- Use a recognizable image, initials or icon to represent entities.
- Provide fallback content for the image or initials.

## Variants

Variants define the visual appearance of components and communicate the priority of the action or information they represent. Some common variants are provided out of the box (see the table below), but you can also create new variants to match your system's needs. 

Variants are created and managed through variable modes in the design system tokens.

| **Variant** | **When to use**                                                                                                                          |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Fill`      | Used as a primary component style to display highest priority. Visually, it has high contrast compared to its surroundings.              |
| `Soft`      | Used as a complimentary style, uses less contrasting fill color.                                                                         |
