contents/docs/components/actions/button/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Button
description: "Also known as: CTA, Action button"
---

## Preview

<div className="w-full bg-primary h-[320px] flex items-center justify-center border border-primary gap-4">
  <div className="moon-button">Button</div>
  <div className="moon-button moon-button-soft">Button</div>
  <div className="moon-button moon-button-outline">Button</div>
  <div className="moon-button moon-button-ghost">Button</div>
</div>

## Resources

<Files
  items={[
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "Figma",
      subtype: "figma",
      href: "https://www.figma.com/design/fC3Ub5cNkXSkz1LBb59DOX/MDS-Button",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "CSS",
      subtype: "css",
      href: "https://ui.moon.io/?path=/docs/actions-button--docs",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "React",
      subtype: "react",
      href: "https://react.moon.io/?path=/docs/actions-button--docs",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "LiveView",
      subtype: "elixir",
      href: "https://liveview.moon.io/actions/button",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Properties

| **Property**              | **Values**                                                       | **Default**   |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| Size `Variant`            | Xs \| Sm \| Md \| Lg \| Xl                                       | Md            |
| Variant `Mode`            | Fill \| Soft \| Outline \| Ghost                                 | Fill          |
| Context `Mode`            | Brand \| Neutral \| Positive \| Negative \| Caution \| Info      | Brand         |
| Start item `Boolean`      | true \| false                                                    | false         |
| Label `Text`              | string                                                           | Button        |
| End item `Boolean`        | true \| false                                                    | false         |

## Best practises

- Use buttons to let users take actions, like submitting a form or saving changes.
- Choose the correct button variant to communicate the priority.
- Only use one primary button per screen or section.
- Use clear and concise labels that describe the action (e.g., “Save”, “Continue”)
- Don’t use too many buttons together, it will overwhelm users.

## When to use

{<svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" style={{ display: 'inline', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}><path d="M5 13l4 4L19 7" style={{ stroke: "var(--color-text-positive)" }} strokeWidth="2" /></svg>} When triggering an action or process, such as submitting a form or saving changes. <br/>
{<svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" style={{ display: 'inline', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}><path d="M6 6L18 18M6 18L18 6" style={{ stroke: "var(--color-text-negative)" }} strokeWidth="2" /></svg>} When navigating between pages or to external resources. <br/>
{<svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" style={{ display: 'inline', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}><path d="M6 6L18 18M6 18L18 6" style={{ stroke: "var(--color-text-negative)" }} strokeWidth="2" /></svg>} When toggling an on/off states, use switch or checkbox instead. <br/>
{<svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" style={{ display: 'inline', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}><path d="M6 6L18 18M6 18L18 6" style={{ stroke: "var(--color-text-negative)" }} strokeWidth="2" /></svg>} When displaying static information.

## Variants

Variants define the visual appearance of buttons and communicate the priority of the action they represent. Some common variants are provided out of the box (see the table below), but you can also create new variants to match your system's needs. 

Variants are created and managed through variable modes in the design system tokens.

| **Variant** | **When to use**                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Fill`      | Used as a primary button style to display highest priority actions. Background color is usually brand color. Visually, it has high contrast compared to its surroundings.              |
| `Soft`      | Used as a complimentary style for fill buttons. Has the similar color as fill button, but is less contrasting.                                                                         |
| `Outline`   | Outline buttons blend more with the surroundings, but are separated from the background with a border. Used for secondary actions that don't require immediate response from the user. |
| `Ghost`     | Also called as Text buttons. Used for the lowest priority actions or complimentary actions for primary buttons.                                                                        |

## Context

Context modes extend the visual identity of components by applying semantic meaning through color. Each context type communicates a specific purpose or state, helping users understand the intent of their actions.

Available context types:
- **Brand:** Primary actions and key interactions (default)
- **Neutral:** Standard actions without specific semantic meaning
- **Positive:** Success states, confirmations and constructive actions
- **Negative:** Destructive actions, errors and warnings that require caution
- **Caution:** Warning states and actions that need user attention
- **Info:** Informational actions and neutral notifications

Context is applied through CSS classes (e.g., `moon-button-positive`, `moon-button-negative`) and automatically adapts the button's colors to match the semantic meaning across all variants (fill, soft, outline, ghost).

Commit message:

Bunch of links and component documentation

contents/docs/components/actions/button/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Button
description: "Also known as: CTA, Action button"
---

## Preview

<div className="w-full bg-primary h-[320px] flex items-center justify-center border border-primary gap-4">
  <div className="moon-button">Button</div>
  <div className="moon-button moon-button-soft">Button</div>
  <div className="moon-button moon-button-outline">Button</div>
  <div className="moon-button moon-button-ghost">Button</div>
</div>

## Resources

<Files
  items={[
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "Figma",
      subtype: "figma",
      href: "https://www.figma.com/community/file/1555914841522711400/mds-button",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "CSS",
      subtype: "css",
      href: "https://ui.moon.io/?path=/docs/actions-button--docs",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "React",
      subtype: "react",
      href: "https://react.moon.io/?path=/docs/actions-button--docs",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      name: "LiveView",
      subtype: "elixir",
      href: "https://liveview.moon.io/actions/button",
    },
  ]}
/>

## Properties

| **Property**              | **Values**                                                       | **Default**   |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| Variant `Mode`            | Fill \| Soft \| Outline \| Ghost                                 | Fill          |
| Context `Mode`            | Brand \| Neutral \| Positive \| Negative \| Caution \| Info      | Brand         |
| Size `Variant`            | Xs \| Sm \| Md \| Lg \| Xl                                       | Md            |
| State `Variant`           | Default \| Hover \| Focus \| Disabled                            | Default       |
| Start item `Boolean`      | true \| false                                                    | false         |
| Label `Text`              | string                                                           | Button        |
| End item `Boolean`        | true \| false                                                    | false         |

## Best practises

- Use buttons to let users take actions, like submitting a form or saving changes.
- Choose the correct button variant to communicate the priority.
- Only use one primary button per screen or section.
- Use clear and concise labels that describe the action (e.g., “Save”, “Continue”)
- Don’t use too many buttons together, it will overwhelm users.

## When to use

{<svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" style={{ display: 'inline', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}><path d="M5 13l4 4L19 7" style={{ stroke: "var(--color-text-positive)" }} strokeWidth="2" /></svg>} When triggering an action or process, such as submitting a form or saving changes. <br/>
{<svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" style={{ display: 'inline', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}><path d="M6 6L18 18M6 18L18 6" style={{ stroke: "var(--color-text-negative)" }} strokeWidth="2" /></svg>} When navigating between pages or to external resources. <br/>
{<svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" style={{ display: 'inline', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}><path d="M6 6L18 18M6 18L18 6" style={{ stroke: "var(--color-text-negative)" }} strokeWidth="2" /></svg>} When toggling an on/off states, use switch or checkbox instead. <br/>
{<svg width="20" height="20" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" style={{ display: 'inline', verticalAlign: 'middle' }}><path d="M6 6L18 18M6 18L18 6" style={{ stroke: "var(--color-text-negative)" }} strokeWidth="2" /></svg>} When displaying static information.

## Variants

Variants define the visual appearance of components and communicate the priority of the action or information they represent. Some common variants are provided out of the box (see the table below), but you can also create new variants to match your system's needs. 

Variants are created and managed through variable modes in the design system tokens.

| **Variant** | **When to use**                                                                                                                          |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Fill`      | Used as a primary component style to display highest priority. Visually, it has high contrast compared to its surroundings.              |
| `Soft`      | Used as a complimentary style, uses less contrasting fill color.                                                                         |
| `Outline`   | Outline components blend more with the surroundings, but are separated from the background with a border.                                |
| `Ghost`     | Used for the lowest priority of components, only text label is visible.                                                                  |

## Context

Context modes extend the visual identity of components by applying semantic meaning through color. Each context type communicates a specific purpose or state, helping users understand the intent of their actions.

Available context types:
- **Brand:** Primary actions and key interactions or communications (default)
- **Neutral:** Standard actions or communications without specific semantic meaning
- **Positive:** Success states, confirmations and constructive actions and communications
- **Negative:** Destructive actions or communications, errors and warnings that require caution
- **Caution:** Warning states and actions or communications that need user attention
- **Info:** Informational actions or communications.

Context is applied through CSS classes (e.g., `moon-button-positive`, `moon-button-negative`) and automatically adapts the button's colors to match the semantic meaning across all variants (fill, soft, outline, ghost).
